Code of Conduct for Open Science Community in Egypt
 
-        Introduction

Open Science Community in Egypt raises awareness of knowledge about open Science by “organize, promoting, and facilitating open science events to enable all participants, members, and non-members, to learn about, share, and discuss open science practices”
This Code of Conduct (CoC) aims to enable an environment in which diverse individuals can collaborate and interact with mutual respect. We recognize a shared responsibility to create and maintain that environment for the benefit of all.
 Some behaviors, therefore, are specifically prohibited:
Trolling, insulting/derogatory comments, and personal or political attacks.
The use of sexualized language or imagery. Unwelcome sexual attention or advances.
Language or imagery that encourages, glorifies, incites, or calls for violence, or emotional, or physical harm against an individual or a group of people.
Public or private harassment.
Personal insults, especially those using racist, ableist, ageist, or sexist terms.
Defaming an individual or group, or violating any trademarks or copyrighted material.
Publishing private or identifying information or non-harassing communication without explicit permission.
Dismissing or attacking inclusion-oriented requests.
Continual disruption of talks, workshops, or other events.
Offensive comments related to race/ethnicity or national origin, sex or gender, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, mental illness or neurotypicality, body size, caste, age, or religion.
Threats or acts of violence.
Deliberate intimidation.
Encouraging any of the above behavior.
 
Expected behavior
Be welcoming. Use inclusive language.
Be respectful of differing viewpoints and experiences.
Be receptive to constructive comments and criticism.
Show empathy towards other community members.
Be respectful of others' positions, skills, commitments, and efforts.
 
-        Reporting/ Speaking Up
 
If someone makes you or anyone else feel unsafe or unwelcome, or if you believe a harassment problem exists, please report it as soon as possible to 
Reporting is possible through a form on the website. The complaint is sent without revealing the complainant's identity.
The target of the complaint will not be involved in handling or resolving the incident. Every code of conduct violation report will be treated with seriousness and care.






-        Enforcement
 
Participants who are asked to stop unacceptable behavior are expected to comply immediately. The Ethics Charter Committee retains the right to take appropriate actions, including:
1.     Mediation between complainant and alleged perpetrator(s), to reach an amicable resolution.
2.     Issue a verbal warning.
3.     Expel the offender(s) from the event (particularly if a participant's immediate safety is threatened)
4.     Expel the offender(s) from the Open Science Community in Egypt.
The Ethics Charter Committee will also discuss with the complainant whether they wish to contact the confidential advisor(s) from outside the community.
The alleged perpetrator(s) will be notified of a complaint as soon as possible, and be given a chance to respond to the complaint.
 
-        References
 American Library Association code of conduct
Community Covenant v1.0.
Society for the Improvement of Psychological Science code of conduct
 
Reading
Code of Conduct Best Practices
How to Make your Corporate Code Influence Employee Behavior
Opensource.com
What We Can Learn from the Coca-Cola Company’s Code of Conduct
